# Haskell Package Attack: January 2018

To kick off the new year of 2018, this January I'm announcing a call
for performance improvements to any random popular package of your
choosing.

It's good practice for Haskell intermediates to learn Haskell
performance, and a change for advanced Haskellers to show off.

For a bit of fun/competition, **we have a monthly table/leader board**
below and it is ordered by lines of code changed. The fewer lines, the
"better".

You can also **nominate packages** that you know have performance issues somewhere, that people might take a crack at. Open a PR to this repo
editing this file to add package nominations.

Submissions for January will be closed on February 1st.

## Guidelines

Each person participating should:

✓ Pick one of the "core" libraries or any library that is popular and
  fairly well established and stable.

✓ Blast it with benchmarks or code review. Pick a particular function
  or feature of the codebase that stands out to you.

✓ Refer to
  [the Haskell performance checklist](https://github.com/haskell-perf/checklist)
  for an outline and ideas on improving performance.

✓ Make a change to that package that makes some part of it >2x faster
  than before, or 2x less memory usage, with **a very clear benchmark with
  [criterion](http://www.serpentine.com/criterion/) or [weigh](https://github.com/fpco/weigh#readme), demonstrating it**.

✓ Open an issue or PR on
  [the attack repo](https://github.com/haskell-perf/attack) to submit
  your result and get on the leaderboard. You can use the Edit button
  on this file which will automatically clone and make a PR for you.

Note: If you basically have to rewrite a lot of a library, then be
careful with pushing the changes to library authors. 

## Leaderboard

|Contributor(s)|Lines of code changed|Package|Link to change|
|:--|:--|:--|:--|
||||

## Nominated packages

None so far.

## Why not general library improvements too?

Some asked: why not improve docs, bugfixes, security, etc.? Because
performance can be measured trivially, and haskell-perf is all about
performance. Performance is fun, things go *faster*! Writing
documentation and fixing bugs is much harder to motivate.
